# Rails Assessments

Try your best to answer each question on your own before looking up the answer online. Once you're done writing your first answer, you can google the question and write the best answer you find.

### 1. What are some advantages of using Ruby on Rails?
Ruby itself is very user friendly and readable. Rails is an added framework that adds additional 
capabilities that makes Ruby extremely versatile.

Google: RoR utilizes MVC architecture. Conventions over Configurations paradigm saves developers 
a lot of time. RoR utilizes the advantages of the Ruby programming language to produce extremely 
readable code.
### 2. How does Ruby on Rails use the Model View Controller (MVC) framework?
Ruby produces the back end code while Rails integrates it with the front end output in view. Not very clear
understanding.

Google: 
Model (ActiveRecord )
It maintains the relationship between the objects and the database and handles validation, association, 
transactions, and more.
View ( ActionView )
It is a presentation of data in a particular format, triggered by a controller's decision to present the
data. They are script-based template systems like JSP, ASP, PHP, and very easy to integrate with AJAX 
technology.
Controller ( ActionController )
The facility within the application that directs traffic, on the one hand, querying the models for 
specific data, and on the other hand, organizing that data (searching, sorting, messaging it) into a 
form that fits the needs of a given view.

### 3. Using the information given, complete the steps for creating a new view in a rails app by filling in the blanks:

  1. Create a route: 
  
  code: 
  ```
  get '/about' => 'statics#about' 
  ```
  file: config/routes
  
  2. Create the controller
  
  code: 
  ```
  class StaticsController < ApplicationController
  
  def about 
    render "about.html.erb"
  end
  ```
  
  file: app/controllers/statics_controller
  
  3. Create the View
  
  code: 
  
  ```
  <div>This is the About page!</div>
  ```
  
  file: app/views/layouts
  
  
### 4. Look at these sets of Rails routes, they are an example of which principle/term that we touched on briefly in class? Find the term, and explain why it is important.

CRUD, the basic capabilities that define any web application.
Create
Read
Update
Delete

Google: The acronym CRUD refers to all of the major functions that are implemented in relational database
applications. Each letter in the acronym can map to a standard Structured Query Language (SQL) statement,
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) method (this is typically used to build RESTful APIs[4]) or Data 
Distribution Service (DDS) operation
```
/users/       method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'index'
/users/1      method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'show'
/users/new    method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'new'
/users/       method="POST"    # :controller => 'users', :action => 'create'
/users/1/edit method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'edit'
/users/1      method="PUT"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'update'
/users/1      method="DELETE"  # :controller => 'users', :action => 'destroy'
```

### 5. What is the public folder used for in Rails?
Google: 2

In many MVC frameworks (e.g. Rails), the public folder is used to serve static files. So for example, 
you often see 404.html, 500.html and favicon.ico files in there when creating the project through the 
"usual" means provided by such frameworks. These are "dumb" files that don't interact w/the backend. 
The assumption is that these don't require a context generated by your controllers to render them; 
for example the 404.html might just express that nothing exists at this URL, where the URL is something
that isn't matched by the framework's routing system.

### 6. Write a rails route for a controller called "main" and a page called "game" that takes in a parameter called "guess"
GET "/game/:guess" => "/main#game"

### 7. What are cookies for? How do they work? What is the difference between a session and a cookie?
Cookies are used for storing temporary information the user submits.

Google:
Cookies are small files which are stored on a user's computer. They are designed to hold a modest amount
of data specific to a particular client and website, and can be accessed either by the web server or the
client computer. This allows the server to deliver a page tailored to a particular user, or the page 
itself can contain some script which is aware of the data in the cookie and so is able to carry 
information from one visit to the website (or related site) to the next.

A cookie is a bit of data stored by the browser and sent to the server with every request.
A session is a collection of data stored on the server and associated with a given user 
(usually via a cookie containing an id code)
### 8. In an html form, what does the "action" attribute tell you about the form?  How do you designate the HTTP verb for the form?
You pick the verb for the correct CRUD operation you want to do. If you want to retrieve data, you
use GET, POST for creating something, DELETE for destroying something, PATCH for updating something.

Google:
The purpose of the HTML action attribute is to specify the URL of a form processor (for example 
a PHP script which handles the form data).

### 9. Why would you use an instance variable in a rails controller?
The instance variable is only recognized for that particular instance of the object created.
A controller could be controlling multiple instances of an object/table/etc, so an instance variable
helps you avoid conflicting repeats of the same variable among multiple objects.

### 10. Name two rails generator commands and what files they create:
rails g resource creates a routes:resource file that preloads a few common CRUD commands
rails g controller creates a controller and the appropriate files to set it up quickly

### 11. Rails has a great community and lots of free tutorials to help you learn. Here is a list of some tutorials to choose from, choose one, do it, and then report back here at least one thing you learned. You can also use a different resource if you find one that you like better. 

- https://www.tutorialspoint.com/ruby-on-rails/index.htm
- http://railsforzombies.org
- http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html

Rails provides a very simple HTTP authentication system.

In the ArticlesController we need to have a way to block access to the various actions if the person 
is not authenticated. Here we can use the Rails http_basic_authenticate_with method, which allows 
access to the requested action if that method allows it.

To use the authentication system, we specify it at the top of our ArticlesController in 
app/controllers/articles_controller.rb. In our case, we want the user to be authenticated on every 
action except index and show